>> Kent: Let's move on to Cypress.
I'm wearing a Cypress shirt.
Cypress folks are pretty cool.
I actually have a Cypress shirt, so
maybe we'll race to see who can do
the exercise or, no just kidding.
Maybe it was whoever did
the best air squats.
>> Kent: Let me just reset,
let me add and get reset.
Okay, so
we're back to the very beginning here.
So the beginning of this section will
be very similar to the Jest section,
I will show you how to configure stuff.
With Cypress, it’s actually a little bit
less on the configuration specific side
and more on the let’s set
up everything else, so
that our app is ready to
be tested against side.
And so, that’s what we’re
going to go through here.
It will be a little lighter
than our configuration of jest.
We're actually gonna be in the calculator
again, so if we cd other/configuration/
calculator, that's where we're
gonna be configuring this stuff.
>> Kent: Okay, so
the first step to configuring and
using cypress is to install it.
npm install --save-dev cypress.
And when you setup the repository we
actually installed it twice on your
project, because it´s installed
in calculator solution as well.
So this is the third time I'm installing
Cypress into this project, but
it actually installs an app.
And sticks that in your node_modules,
so it´s just kinda wild but
it's a really capable app that
you'll get a preview up here.
And just a sec when it is finished.
Okay, I'm not gonna make you eat well.
Yeah, it won't take too long.
So Cypress, how many people
here familiar with selenium?
You use selenium before?
Okay.
How many people really
like selenium a lot?
How many people kind of like Selenium?
All right, how many people are glad
that Selenium keeps you from having
to answer pages at two in the morning?
I am, I just wish I didn't have
to use Selenium to do that.
Well, you don't, you have Cypress.
So Cypress has been installed,
if you are in a recent version of npm,
then you can actually use a cool command
called npx, which will run a binary that
exist in your node_module directory,
and so cypress exposes a binary.
And so if I run npx cypress open,
then it will verify that cypress can run.
I'm not sure what that does.
To help you get started, create a bunch of
files for you and you say, okay got it.
And then you can actually run the test.
This prompts open
the Cypress Chrome browser, and
it starts running these tests.
And what's pretty cool about
this is that this is actually,
this isn't just like a video.
What on earth?
But it's actually something
you can interact with.
Like a, well click, click.
Probably broke the test.
But you can also pop open the dev tools.
And look at the dom.
Well things are happening so
crazy fast that,
we'll see a better preview of this
when we start doing our own thing.
So this is really annoying.
I'm gonna stop this.
It's just like the kitchen sink.
This is everything that you could
possibly ever imagine doing,
the cypress is right here.
So let's make it a little less like that,
and
get something that's actually useful for
our purposes,
I'm gonna close this thing
>> Kent: So if we go into Cypress.
Let's look at some of
the files it created.
There's a cypress.json.
That's for configuration.
There's this fixtures thing, and
I'm not gonna show you too much about
the fixtures but cypress is very,
very well documented.
And there's a special way that you can
reference these fixtures in your tests.
So you have, like your default user
that's always gonna be in the database.
You can put their information in here and
then reference that, or
something like that.
And then all the test live in integration.
I don't like that, so I actually change
the configuration to have it in a folder
called e2e because I live Cypress for end
to end, [INAUDIBLE] differ integration.
But yeah, this is were all those
test lived that we were watching.
And then, plugins,
I don't really have a purpose for
plugins so there are reasons, but
we're not gonna get into them.
And then commands, and we'll definitely
have some custom commands that
I'll bring in and
I'll show you some of those.
And that's pretty much all of cypress
configuration to get what we just saw.
So the next thing that we're gonna
do in our cypress configuration,
we'll add some configuration for
a base URL.
So, I always forget if it's all caps or
not,
baseUrl and that'll be a localhost 8080.
So that's where our application lives and
that's where cypress will
boot up in the first place.
And then also want to, I'm gonna change
the integrationfolder to cypress/e2e,
cuz I think it's weird to call it
an integrationfolder in the first place.
So rename, this actually we'll
just delete this entirely.
Cuz I don't want those tests anymore.
And we'll rename this to or
sorry, add a new folder.
New folder, e2e and
that's where tests are gonna live.
Now, we're gonna be looking at
writing test here in just a second.
So I'm gonna duplicate
our test suite here.
>> Kent: And this is a very simple,
actually doesn't make any insertion,
cypress test.
But some of these things actually
might look familiar, getByText or
getting these different buttons and
clicking on them.
These are not built into Cypress,
and so we need to install those.
So do this with npm install --save-dev
cypress-testing-library.
>> Kent: And then we can reference
that in our support file.
So that's where,
this is kinda like our setup script or
setup testing framework script file.
Where we can set up some custom commands.
And the cypress testing library
has some of these custom commands.
So import
'cypress-testing-library/add-commands'.
That'll add our commands for us.
If you wanna look at that,
it has all the commands here.
For each of the commands, it's gonna add
those and we'll actually see some other
custom commands where that,
we'll write some of our own.
>> Kent: Cool.
So now those commands will be available
on Cypress, and we can run them.
So if we start up, you notice I didn't
have to shutdown the Cypress app and
reopen it again,
it detected my changes which is helpful.
Pop that open and there you go.
Clicked 1, and then click +, and then
click 2, and then click =, and then 3.
And then we assert that,
three was what popped up in the display.
Which actually,
why don't we just do that really quick.
Let's find that.
Okay, so this doesn't have
any way really to identify
it reasonably cuz we're using CSS modules.
So what I'm gonna do is
add a data test ID, so
we'll go to src,
calculator-display, and we'll add.
Right here.
Well, let's do it.
>> Kent: this.props, so spread all
the props so we can forward those on.
>> Kent: We’ll apply it right here.
Data-testid="number-display".
>> Kent: And
then inside of here we can say,
.getByTextId('number-display), and
then we can make an assertion there.
So let's just go ahead and we'll save that
it will rerun, and now it got my test id.
So if you are familiar with what I've been
doing already should be like way what?
If you are not, then you are like okay,
that's a cool out bro.
But take a look at this.
I click on this and
it shows me what was selected.
I'm also looking directly
in my developer tools,
that I'm used to using every day and
looking what the state of the dom is.
So, first off, that's awesome.
You can't do that with slaham.
What is even more mind-blowing, is that
I can actually go back up here, and
look at what the state of the dom
looked like at that point.
And it's not just a screenshot,
it's actual dom.
So I can go and select this.
And at that point, that value is zero.
So that's also awesome.
What's even cooler is at this point,
I can start interacting with this thing.
And it doesn't work I forgot, sorry.
[LAUGH] I have to unclip it and
then I can start interacting it,
even once my tests have all finished.
So for this reason, you generally
wanna do your cleanup as a before each
step rather than an after each because, if
something breaks, you'll stop right here.
And it won't do any cleanup, so
you can be in the same state that
you were when the test busted.
So if you can, try to avoid after each in,
use four each instead.
But this is a very,
very like really amazing
development experience
that Cypress gives us.
So.
>> Kent: Yeah, that's basically it for
setting it up so you can actually run it.
Now I'm gonna add a couple of scripts so
that we can automate the process of
running it, so we don't have
to run the dev in one tab and
then open the app in the other
tab of our terminal.
But get them to run all together.
>> Kent: So, to do this were going
to install a new dependency,
npm install --save-dev- npm-run-all.
How many people have
used npm-run-all before?
Okay.
It’s a pretty handy script that allows
you to run multiple scripts in parallel.
And here I'm going to add a script called,
"test:e2e"dev.
That's a semicolon.
And I'll use npm-run-all, whoops.
>> Kent: And it allows me to
run all of these in parallel.
And we want to run the dev script in order
to make a new script called cy:open.
And cy:open is just
gonna be "cypress open".
So it's basically what we're doing here.
We're running the dev script here,
the Cypress open script here.
We're just gonna do it in one script so
we don't have to run it in two places.
So that's the development stuff.
We can close these down for now.
And then to make it work in CI,
we'll add a test:e2e.
You can call it, test.e2e, cy,
whatever you wanna call it.
And we'll run, npm-run-all start.
Sorry, we want it in --parallel.
And in this case, we also want
it to shut down when it's done.
So, with the dev script it's always open,
it's watching files and everything.
In this case, we want it to shut
down when it's all finished so
it doesn't just hang on to cy.
So we're gonna use race.
And that means that we'll npm-run-all will
kill all of the other processes
as soon as the first one exits.
And in that case all that we really care
about is we're gonna start at the server,
we'll start up cypress,
it'll run all the tests then it'll die and
then we'll kill the server.
So we'll race the start and cy:run and
cy:run will just be,
you guessed it, cypress run.
>> Kent: And now if we run npm run test:
e2e, that's what our cy would run.
And it'll break, what?
Sorry as a, yeah,
before we actually do any of that,
we need to run the build,
so npm run build.
Presumably in cy,
you would have already done this.
You can also have a pretest
e2e that would run the build.
>> Kent: Okay.
>> Kent: Then we have things running.
>> Kent: Cypress actually
also records video.
Even when it's running in headless mode,
it'll record video and
you can upload that to CI and
whatever, see what the problem is.
And it looks like we did break something.
Something timed out, so that's no fun.
Maybe we could watch the video.
I'm not gonna debug that,
cuz we wanna move on.
So we could also run mpm run dev or
test e2e:dev.
>> Kent: And
it will pop up in Cypress for us.
And then we can use Cypress
to drive our development.
That's actually something
I've been meeting to try.
I haven't gotten around to trying this
yet, but I kind of want to just close down
Chrome when I' m developing, cuz I'm
really used to just having Chrome open all
the time and
interacting with the things I'm building.
I kind of wanna just close down Chrome and
just use Cypress.
And so like,
often you're going through a flow,
you're implementing some sort of
form flow or something like that.
And so you pull it up and
you click through, until you get
to this spot you need to fix.
And you'll do some code and
then you'll click through it again.
You could automate all those
click through's with Cypress, and
make it a part of your work flow.
Almost like not test-driven development,
but test as you develop.
And, I think that it would actually
really enhance my workflow.
So I'm looking forward to taking a chance
to, or taking an opportunity to do that,
that would be something to check out.